# EDA-on-Attrition-Rate-of-a-company
We have analysed a dataset of an organization which consists of 1470 employees. Since 65% of the employees in this organization are in Research and development, we can assume that the company activities include innovation and introducing new products and services. Also, since 41% of the employees are from the Life sciences background and 31% of the employees are from medical background, we can say that this company is based out of bio-technology and R&amp;D. This further strengthens our earlier propositions. This organization has employees across the spectrum from recent graduates to the retirement age. And since the maximum age bracket with highest number of employees are between 30 -36, we can safely assume that the company prefers employees who have considerable work experience.  As a general rule, a company should aim for a turnover rate of 10% or less. Since this organization has an attrition rate greater than 10% (i.e., 16.12%), we can infer that this company is facing difficulties with employee retention. This company has 60% of the male employees and 40% of the female employees hence, they would need to strive for equal participation of workforce. On a broader perspective, this finding gives credence to the social fact that there is a lower proportion of women workforce in Research and development profiles. This situation needs to be improved to achieve gender parity in workforce.  60% of the employees of this company have voted for the top 2 categories when it comes to environment satisfaction, so we can say that the majority of employees feel comfortable working in this organization. However, 40% of the employees seem to need improvement in their working environment. So, the company seems to have more scope to improve the working conditions, physical workspace and OSH compliance. Senior level employees in this company are less in number(4.7%) and the junior level employees (Levels 1 and 2) are almost 73.2%, which represents the majority of workforce. So, the company seems to have a typical 'hierarchical' organisational structure. This pyramidal chain of command can slow down 'innovation' - which is quintessential for an R&amp;D company. Only 30% of employees in the organization have given the highest rating for job satisfaction. So, the company can focus on the "Motivator" factors for Job Satisfaction ("Herzberg two factor theory") like: -Performance and achievement, -Recognition and personal growth, -Responsibility and opportunity for advancement,  -Job status and work itself. As 45% of the employees in the organization are married, the company appears to give a stable and well-paying job profile to the employees. Marital status is also an important indicator of organisational commitment. Generally, married people are more committed to their organisation than unmarried people. The monthly income appears to be 'positively skewed' since a majority of employees fall in the normal or lower-income earning group rather than a few high earning income groups. This also clearly shows the inequality in income distribution.  The dataset of this company reveals that a majority of the employees (75%) have a work experience of less than 9 years at the company. There appears to be a tapering down of career progression above 10 years. If the company can positively tackle this, it can greatly benefit the organisation. The maximum number of years of employees since Last Promotion is 0 years (less than a year), immediately followed by 1 year. A prompt promotion policy can also be inferred here. This can be a motivating factor to improve productivity if it is supported with enhanced job roles and responsibilities. A large number of employees are residing close to the company (50% of the employees are at a distance of 7km). There is a possibility that accomodation facilities are provided by the company, since the maximum count of employees are at a distance of 2 km. Aletrnatively, this could also be a campus R&amp;D Facility. Noticeably, there are no outliers for this dataset; implying that no employee is travelling very long distances.
